=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Unicode::BiDiRule - RFC 5893 BiDi規則

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Unicode::BiDiRule qw(check);
  $result = check($string);
  %result = check($string);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

L<Unicode::BiDiRule> は、RFC 5983に述べるBiDi規則にしたがって検査を行う。

なお当ドキュメントでは、「UTF-8」という語を本来の意味で用いる。

=head1 Function

=over

=item check ( $string )

Check if a string satisfys BiDi Rule.

Parameters:

=over

=item $string

A string to be checked, Unicode string or bytestring.

Note that bytestring won't be upgraded to Unicode string but will be treated
as UTF-8 sequence.

=back

Returns:

In scalar context:
Direction of string, C<UNKNOWN> (C<0>), C<LTR> or C<RTL>,
if it satisfys the rule.
Otherwise C<undef>.

In array context:
A list of pairs describing detail of result with these keys:

=over

=item C<result>

One of values described in L</Constants>.

=item C<offset>

If the check fails, offset from beginning of string.
If succeeds, length of string.

Offset or length is based on byte for bytestring,
and based on character for Unicode string.

=item C<length>

When the check fails, length of disallowed substring.

Length is based on byte for bytestring,
and based on character for Unicode string.

=item C<ord>

Unicode scalar value of the first character of substring,
when C<length> item is set.

=back

=back

=head2 Constants

=over

=item C<UNKNOWN>

=item C<LTR>

=item C<RTL>

=item C<DISALLOWED>

Possible results of checking.
C<UNKNOWN> indicates that string was empty and its direction was not
determined.

=back

=head2 Exports

None by default.
C<:all> tag exports check() and constants.

=head1 CAVEATS

The repertoire and property values this module can provide are restricted by
Unicode database of Perl core.
Table below lists implemented Unicode version by each Perl version.

  Perl's version     Implemented Unicode version
  ------------------ ---------------------------
  5.8.7, 5.8.8       4.1.0
  5.10.0             5.0.0
  5.8.9, 5.10.1      5.1.0
  5.12.x             5.2.0
  5.14.x             6.0.0 with Corrigendum #8
  5.16.x             6.1.0
  5.18.x             6.2.0
  5.20.x             6.3.0
  5.22.x             7.0.0, correcting erratum at 2014-10-21

=head1 RESTRICTIONS

check() can not check Unicode string on EBCDIC platforms.

=head1 SEE ALSO

RFC 5893
I<Right-to-Left Scripts for Internationalized Domain Names for Applications
(IDNA)>.
L<https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5893>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Hatuka*nezumi - IKEDA Soji, E<lt>hatuka@nezumi.nuE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2015 by Hatuka*nezumi - IKEDA Soji

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself. For more details, see the full text of
the licenses at <http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be
useful, but without any warranty; without even the implied
warranty of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.


=cut

